ID,Category,Topic,Description
1,Core Fraud Concepts & Principles,Fraud Triangle/Diamond,"Understanding the three/four elements (Pressure, Opportunity, Rationalization, and Capability) that lead to occupational fraud."
2,Core Fraud Concepts & Principles,Fraud Taxonomy/Typology,"Classification of fraud into categories (e.g., internal vs. external, corruption, asset misappropriation, financial statement fraud)."
3,Core Fraud Concepts & Principles,Financial Crime Lifecycle,"Stages of a financial crime: offense, placement, layering, integration."
4,Core Fraud Concepts & Principles,Red Flags & Indicators,"Identifying unusual patterns, behavioral changes, or accounting anomalies that signal potential fraud."
5,Core Fraud Concepts & Principles,Internal vs. External Fraud,"Distinguishing schemes committed by employees (occupational fraud) versus those by outside parties (e.g., customers, cybercriminals)."
6,Core Fraud Concepts & Principles,ACFE Definition of Fraud,"Understanding the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners' classification of fraud."
7,Core Fraud Concepts & Principles,The Psychology of the Fraudster,"Exploring the motivations, behavioral traits, and moral reasoning of individuals who commit financial fraud."
8,Core Fraud Concepts & Principles,Loss Quantification Methods,"Techniques for accurately calculating the monetary loss resulting from a fraudulent scheme."
9,Core Fraud Concepts & Principles,Elements of Proof (Legal),"The required components to prove fraud in a legal setting (e.g., misrepresentation, intent, reliance, damages)."
10,Core Fraud Concepts & Principles,Financial Exploitation of Vulnerable Adults,"Specific schemes and protective measures related to elderly or incapacitated individuals."
11,Common Fraud Schemes: Identity & Payment,Identity Theft & Social Security Fraud,"Theft and misuse of personal identifying information (PII) to commit financial crimes."
12,Common Fraud Schemes: Identity & Payment,Synthetic Identity Fraud,"Creating new, false identities using a mix of real and fake information."
13,Common Fraud Schemes: Identity & Payment,Account Takeover (ATO) Fraud,"Gaining unauthorized access to a legitimate customer account."
14,Common Fraud Schemes: Identity & Payment,Credit Card Fraud (CNP & Card Skimming),"Unauthorized use of card details, especially Card-Not-Present (CNP) and physical skimming attacks."
15,Common Fraud Schemes: Identity & Payment,Check Fraud & Counterfeiting,"Forging, altering, or creating fake checks."
16,Common Fraud Schemes: Identity & Payment,Wire Transfer Fraud,"Unauthorized or deceptive movement of funds via wire or ACH systems."
17,Common Fraud Schemes: Identity & Payment,Authorized Push Payment (APP) Fraud,"Tricking a victim into willingly transferring funds to a fraudster's account."
18,Common Fraud Schemes: Identity & Payment,Chargeback Fraud,"Customers falsely claiming a charge was unauthorized to receive a refund."
19,Common Fraud Schemes: Identity & Payment,Cryptocurrency & Blockchain Fraud,"Scams related to digital assets (e.g., rug pulls, exchange hacks)."
20,Common Fraud Schemes: Corporate & Organizational,Financial Statement Fraud,"Intentional misstatement or omission of financial data to deceive users (e.g., revenue manipulation)."
21,Common Fraud Schemes: Corporate & Organizational,Asset Misappropriation (Cash/Inventory),"Theft of company assets (e.g., embezzlement, skimming, fictitious expenses)."
22,Common Fraud Schemes: Corporate & Organizational,Procurement Fraud & Bid Rigging,"Corruption in the purchasing process (e.g., kickbacks, phantom vendors)."
23,Common Fraud Schemes: Corporate & Organizational,Payroll Fraud & Ghost Employees,"Falsifying payroll records to issue payments to non-existent or ineligible individuals."
24,Common Fraud Schemes: Corporate & Organizational,Expense Reimbursement Fraud,"Submitting false or inflated expense claims for personal gain."
25,Common Fraud Schemes: Corporate & Organizational,Bribery and Corruption,"Offering, giving, receiving, or soliciting anything of value to influence an action or decision."
26,Common Fraud Schemes: Corporate & Organizational,Insider Trading,"Buying or selling a security in breach of a fiduciary duty while in possession of material, non-public information."
27,Common Fraud Schemes: Investment & Lending,Ponzi Schemes & Pyramid Schemes,"Fraudulent investment operations where returns are paid to older investors from funds contributed by new investors."
28,Common Fraud Schemes: Investment & Lending,Advance Fee Fraud (419 Scams),"Requiring a victim to pay a small upfront fee to receive a large payout that never materializes."
29,Common Fraud Schemes: Investment & Lending,Mortgage Fraud & Property Flipping,"Deception in the mortgage process (e.g., inflated appraisals, straw buyers)."
30,Common Fraud Schemes: Investment & Lending,Loan Stacking & Bust-Out Fraud,"Obtaining multiple loans simultaneously before the first creditor reports the debt, or maxing out credit lines before declaring bankruptcy."
31,Common Fraud Schemes: Investment & Lending,Insurance Fraud (Claims & Application),"Deception to obtain insurance benefits or lower premiums."
32,Common Fraud Schemes: Investment & Lending,Securities Fraud (Pump and Dump),"Artificially inflating the price of a stock (a ""pump"") and then selling it off at the inflated price (a ""dump"")."
33,Technology & Cyber Fraud,Phishing, Vishing, and Smishing,"Fraudulent attempts to obtain sensitive information via email, phone calls, or text messages."
34,Technology & Cyber Fraud,Malware & Ransomware,"Understanding how malicious software is used to steal data or extort payment."
35,Technology & Cyber Fraud,Social Engineering Tactics,"Manipulating individuals into divulging confidential information or performing actions that benefit the fraudster."
36,Technology & Cyber Fraud,Business Email Compromise (BEC),"Tricking a company employee into making an unauthorized wire transfer, often impersonating a CEO or vendor."
37,Technology & Cyber Fraud,Deepfakes & Synthetic Media Fraud,"Using AI-generated images, audio, or video to deceive in high-value transactions."
38,Technology & Cyber Fraud,Dark Web & Data Breaches,"Understanding where stolen financial data is bought, sold, and traded."
39,Technology & Cyber Fraud,API Security & Digital Onboarding Fraud,"Exploiting vulnerabilities in application programming interfaces used in financial services."
40,Technology & Cyber Fraud,Bot Attacks & Automated Fraud,"Use of automated scripts and bots to execute fraud at scale."
41,Anti-Financial Crime (AFC) & Regulatory Compliance,Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Principles,"Understanding the process of legitimizing illicit funds and the laws against it."
42,Anti-Financial Crime (AFC) & Regulatory Compliance,Know Your Customer (KYC) & Customer Due Diligence (CDD),"Verification processes to confirm customer identity and assess risk."
43,Anti-Financial Crime (AFC) & Regulatory Compliance,Sanctions Compliance & OFAC Regulations,"Adherence to international and government restrictions on financial transactions with certain entities/countries."
44,Anti-Financial Crime (AFC) & Regulatory Compliance,Counter-Terrorist Financing (CTF),"Strategies and regulations to prevent the funding of terrorist activities."
45,Anti-Financial Crime (AFC) & Regulatory Compliance,GDPR, CCPA, and Data Privacy Laws,"The intersection of fraud prevention with global data protection regulations."
46,Anti-Financial Crime (AFC) & Regulatory Compliance,Whistleblower Protections (e.g., Sarbanes-Oxley Act),"Laws protecting individuals who report illegal or fraudulent activities."
47,Anti-Financial Crime (AFC) & Regulatory Compliance,The Role of FinCEN and FATF,"Understanding the mandates of key financial intelligence and policy-setting bodies."
48,Anti-Financial Crime (AFC) & Regulatory Compliance,Suspicious Activity Reports (SARs) Filing,"The legal requirement and process for reporting potential financial crime to authorities."
49,Anti-Financial Crime (AFC) & Regulatory Compliance,Internal Controls Frameworks (e.g., COSO),"Designing and evaluating systems to mitigate operational and financial fraud risk."
50,Anti-Financial Crime (AFC) & Regulatory Compliance,Regulatory Reporting Requirements,"Compliance with mandatory disclosures related to fraud and financial crime."
51,Fraud Risk Management & Prevention,Fraud Risk Assessment Methodology,"Systematically identifying, analyzing, and prioritizing fraud vulnerabilities."
52,Fraud Risk Management & Prevention,Fraud Prevention Program Design,"Creating a comprehensive, multi-layered strategy for fraud mitigation."
53,Fraud Risk Management & Prevention,Transaction Monitoring Systems,"Real-time analysis of payments and activities to detect anomalies."
54,Fraud Risk Management & Prevention,Fraud Scoring & Rule Engines,"Developing mathematical models and logic-based systems to rate the risk of a transaction or account."
55,Fraud Risk Management & Prevention,Behavioral Biometrics & Device Fingerprinting,"Analyzing user interaction patterns and device data to verify identity and detect account compromise."
56,Fraud Risk Management & Prevention,Data Analytics in Fraud Detection,"Using statistical methods and data mining to identify fraudulent patterns in large datasets."
57,Fraud Risk Management & Prevention,Artificial Intelligence (AI) & Machine Learning (ML) for Fraud,"Implementing advanced algorithms to predict and detect emerging fraud schemes."
58,Fraud Risk Management & Prevention,Segregation of Duties (SoD),"A key internal control where no single person controls all aspects of a financial transaction."
59,Fraud Risk Management & Prevention,Security Awareness Training for Employees,"Educating staff on how to recognize and report internal and external fraud threats."
60,Fraud Risk Management & Prevention,Vendor Risk Management,"Assessing and mitigating fraud risks introduced by third-party partners and suppliers."
61,Fraud Investigation & Response,Financial Forensic Accounting,"Using accounting and auditing skills to investigate fraud and prepare evidence for legal action."
62,Fraud Investigation & Response,Evidence Collection & Chain of Custody,"Proper procedures for obtaining, securing, and documenting physical and digital evidence."
63,Fraud Investigation & Response,Digital Forensics & E-Discovery,"Techniques for recovering and analyzing data from computers and other digital devices."
64,Fraud Investigation & Response,Interviewing & Interrogation Techniques,"Structured methods for questioning witnesses, co-conspirators, and subjects in a fraud investigation."
65,Fraud Investigation & Response,Report Writing for Investigations,"Documenting findings clearly, concisely, and legally defensibly for internal and external use."
66,Fraud Investigation & Response,Root Cause Analysis (RCA),"Identifying the underlying systemic failure that allowed the fraud to occur."
67,Fraud Investigation & Response,Data Visualization for Fraud Analysis,"Using graphs and charts (e.g., link analysis) to illustrate complex fraudulent networks and fund flows."
68,Fraud Investigation & Response,Asset Tracing & Recovery,"Legal and investigative processes for locating and reclaiming fraudulently obtained funds or assets."
69,Fraud Investigation & Response,Coordination with Law Enforcement,"Understanding the process, requirements, and limitations of working with police, FBI, and other agencies."
70,Fraud Investigation & Response,Post-Investigation Remediation,"Implementing corrective actions to strengthen controls and prevent recurrence of the identified fraud."